[music]
Bloomberg audio studios podcasts radio
news.
>> Okay. So u thank you all. Uh the next
paper uh is going presented by Omar
Barbiero. US firms exposure to import
tariffs a comparison of the 2018 and
2025 episodes.
>> Can I ask a personal question?
>> 25 minutes. when you present a paper
like this at a research conference like
this Boston Fed one
>> do you get nervous and then I guess
adjacent to that like what what's the
best outcome for you when you present
the paper and what's the sort of
nightmare scenario would it be someone
like finding some fundamental error in
the methodology and like standing up in
the middle of the conference and being
like there's a serious problem here
>> yeah I mean many many nightmare
scenarios
Sorry, I was just clicking randomly and
then it went. Okay. [laughter]
All right. I would say the the worst
thing that can happen is that you just
say something wrong that sounds
dishonest almost like you're trying to
hide something like there's clearly a
data flaw and then you don't highlight
it or you don't you say in public, "No,
no, no, this is not a problem." And
everybody knows that no, it's it's a
problem. kind of that that's I think the
profession is built on trust and if you
if you lose that trust it's it's it's
quite bad.
>> That's Omar Barbierro, a senior
economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of
Boston. He's getting ready to stand up
in front of a room full of other
economists, journalists, academics and
his employer and present a research
paper tracking the exposure of US
businesses to import tariffs. Uh this is
a paper uh written jointly with Slavic
uh Hillary and Alvaro who are there.
There happen to be in the room our
excellent research assistants Sophie and
Lilia also who helped us uh with this
with this paper. It's uh we we wrote it
for the conference is still uh quite
preliminary and uh therefore we really
value uh your uh your comments on this.
But how many individual pieces of data
would you say were involved in this
particular study?
>> Okay, product code they were they were
around 400,000
I would say and then uh you have to
multiply that by many different
countries and so you have to keep track
of that matrix. the supply chain data
set was also quite fun because it's kind
of a network of companies and uh it it
gets big uh very very fast and you have
to track it over time I have to say I
mean we have excellent uh I mean I have
I have excellent co-authors we have
excellent research assistant we have
excellent you know computing power uh
thank god I can can help us with that
and uh I don't know I I
>> hundreds of thousands millions
>> I ah
Yes, millions.
>> We are at the Boston Fed's annual
flagship research conference. This is
the 69th year of the event and the theme
for 2025 is quote the US economy in a
changing global landscape. So focusing
on how things like tariffs, geopolitical
tensions, industrial policy, AI, etc.
are reshaping US growth, inflation, and
the overall financial system. Clearly,
that is a very rich vein to mine for
research. And the format is a classic
central bank research conference.
Economists and other researchers are
invited to write a paper for the event.
They're assigned an official discussant
and then they publicly present to a room
full of their peers while the audience
gets a chance to ask questions or
sometimes critique.
>> Yeah. You say it's a classic central
bank research conference, but we've
never actually been to one, I don't
think. Right. It felt like a totally new
environment.
>> Yeah, it's true. We have gone to Jackson
Hole for the past few years, which is
probably the most famous Fed research
conference, but it's famous because the
Fed chair usually makes a speech and
that gets all the attention. We've never
actually been in the room at Jackson
Hole where they discuss the research
papers being presented because the Fed
only allows a certain number of
journalists into the room.
>> The room.
>> The room. Also, I think it's unfair
Kansas City Fed gets to hold their
conference in the most beautiful place
on earth
>> instead of Kansas City
>> in the middle of August. And then the
Boston Fed, I mean, it's their choice,
but the Boston Fed has theirs in Boston,
which is lovely. We both had a great
time. But November
>> it it was very cold. Well, the upshot is
that this time we were actually in the
proverbial room. So for the first time
we got to really experience and learn
what an economic research conference
actually is.
>> Yeah, this is actually very key because
if you sort of like wonder so okay
Jerome Paul says something about you
know the expected relationship between
tariffs and inflationary but where did
these ideas come from? Where are these
assertions, predictions and so forth? It
comes from academic research. It comes
from the research backing that up. These
conferences are where the macro ideas
sort of actually collide with real world
data.
>> Yeah. Another way of thinking about it,
it is where the first serious drafts of
tomorrow's policy debates are aired. And
we're going to give you a front row seat
to experience what those initial drafts
and debates are actually like. Welcome
to the Boston Fed's 69th annual flagship
economic conference.
[music]
When you do research at the regional
bank, at the board or at the BIS, you do
policy. By policy, we mean, you know,
you advise your principles. In our case,
that's Susan Collins, the president and
CEO of the Boston Fed. preparations for
the FOMC meeting for public engagements.
>> That is Egon Sakryek. He's director of
the research department at the Boston
Fed and he's the one who actually puts
this event together
>> and he's Omar's boss.
>> Yeah. And he's Omar's boss, right? He
also gets to choose the broad theme of
the conference.
>> We've lived in a particular global
order, rulesbased, international system,
globalizations,
trade integrations. We just took those
things for granted for decades and we're
now grappling with monumental change and
we lack models. We lack theoretical
frameworks to understand these changes.
You you've heard many debates about this
data is no good. This is the sausage.
Don't eat it. Right? And how does one go
about it? So I think it's just it's just
really I mean it's an exciting time for
researchers because we have great
questions. But I think it also
underscores of just how little we really
know and and and how challenging it is
then to to make policy recommendations
in the in this in the period of such
change. You know the way the conference
a conference like that comes together is
you know we sit together my my my team
of researchers we we try to pick a topic
that would obviously be timely relevant
to policy makers. We confer with Susan
and then so forth. We look you know and
so forth. So once we once we kind of
zero in on what the topic is, we then
have to identify the contributors uh to
this. We have a certain idea of what we
want different sessions to be. Then we
get uh either academics or you know
contributors to write papers for this.
But you know uh academics researchers
write what they want to write. So
sometimes there's a bit of a you know
say say you know gentlemanlike distance
between the blurp and the ultimate uh
paper that gets written but that's all
right we've always seen this this is
very very standard and uh you know the
idea is then is to the discussence the
role of a discussant then is to kind of
uh bring that paper and provide some
context and you know try to try to you
know fit it into the general theme. So
this particular conference the theme has
changed right and one of the things we
keep saying but I think is true is we
are living through capital age history
here we have the tariffs from the Trump
administration the reversal of
globalization new geopolitical risks AI
all of it
>> right and we're also still trying to
figure out stuff like what happened in
relatively recent years why did
inflation actually spike during the
pandemic we're also in this new era of
industrial policy and we're trying to
figure out what that means for the
economy if we actually want to do the
stuff like make semiconductors or build
small modular nuclear reactors, we have
to have some idea of where we're going
>> and and we try to really keep it, you
know, I would say somewhat
more accessible. I would say a bit
interdisciplinary. We try to reach a bit
broader audience is somewhat atypical
conference. You know, your typical
economic research [snorts] conference
would feature slide after slide of
equations, graphs. Sorry, I'm laughing
slightly because I saw some equations
this morning and the speaker is like oh
well as you can see from this slide and
I'm thinking I cannot see no idea.
>> Right. Right. So you know so this is I
would say this is very light on this. If
you uh you know this is super light on
this and so forth. Um we we urge authors
to try to write something that's more I
would say policy relevant that that that
touches that can be communicated and
stuff that rather than very very
technical pieces you know that is what
the academic journals tend to specialize
hopefully it sparks it sparks an idea it
sparks a new paper you know it says ah
you know what this is an interesting
result but I have maybe better data to
do that uh so let me actually or there
was uh there was a testable implication
that somebody you know brought up let me
see if I can flesh that out because I
think I can provide some that's how
knowledge and conferences you know
advances it's a very organic a bit of a
messy type of affair and you know to be
honest many times don't things don't
they don't pan out you know uh I have
files and folders full of research ideas
that you know never went anywhere but
that but you try
>> and if you want to get a sense of that
process and the policy implications of
some of this research. Take a listen to
the first paper presented at the
conference. It's by Shbnam Kmley Oscin.
She's the Shriber family professor of
economics over at Brown University.
>> I love economists and their uh their
long titles. The John Maynard Kane's
chair of the Ludvig vine me's endowed
seed at the University of whatever.
>> Kane's chair at the Misi school would be
um an interesting mix. Anyway, here's
Shbnam presenting her paper. It is
called global networks risks and the US
economy.
>> You know, paper after paper, we realize
uh the issue with the conventional macro
open economy view. What is this view?
This view takes us as a relatively
closed economy because of the low trade
shares, exports 10% of GDP, imports 14%
of GDP.
And that of course combines with the
fact that uh US uh uh is uh governing
the world in terms of dollar dominance
and uh deep financial markets. And on
top of that US has a amazing central
bank as we are all uh here right now we
know that Federal Reserve acts as a
global lender of last resort uh when
things go south. The benchmark
implication of this view is that US has
limited exposure to global risks. We
would like to revisit
uh the issue in terms of asking directly
how sensitive the US economy to global
risks once we account for full global
trade, production and finance networks
and really think about uh trades off and
counterfactuals
and basically revisit this issue that
the fact that maybe your trade shares
are low.
>> We caught up with Shbnam after her
presentation to better understand
exactly what she's trying to do here.
All right. So yes, we found uh something
different uh because uh we work with
networks and let me explain what that
is. When you say networks again the the
the traditional we first going to think
about of course the trade networks. Why?
Because the trade networks directly
linked to supply chains right and we
already realized uh uh you know it is
those are vulnerable. I mean you know
shock after shock starting with the
pandemic uh uh you know told us that yes
maybe kind of our uh final goods trade
or just if I focus on manufacturing not
that big but if I look at the supply
chains value chains then US is
integrated to that uh and then that
changes the things because that means uh
even in the aggregate number you might
not see that big of exports and imports
there might be indirect exposure through
all those things because when you think
a network you You are linked through
trade. This is now where we also add to
the traditional view. But you also have
to think about the financing, right? I
mean, so the networks to us is trade
networks. Yes, you know, countries
buying and selling, sectors buying and
selling, firms buying and selling from
each other, but also financial networks.
I mean, you know, investors investing in
companies in other countries, you know,
the supply chains financed by different
investors in other countries. And on top
of that, of course, the production,
right? I mean you know so a a a a
product right now is assembled in one
country designed in another country
manufacturing in another country with
parts coming from many many countries
and skills and knowledge also coming
from many many countries. So when you
have this type of a comprehensive view
of the network global network as trade
production and finance then I think US
uh becomes uh very vulnerable to global
shocks and global risks. So you could
see why this would be an important area
of research for the Fed. Right.
>> Right. And the conventional thinking has
always been that the US is kind of
insulated from global shocks because
it's so big because the dollar is so
dominant. External factors it's thought
don't really affect the US economy so
much
>> right and also we don't actually export
that much relatively speaking
>> right we import. So that's the
conventional view. But if per Shbnam's
research, the US is in fact more exposed
to global shocks than previously
thought, if it's more intertwined with
the network of the global economy
through secondord effects, then policy
makers should be aware of that. Right?
>> Wasn't clear. This is an enormous body
of work spanning, you know, several
papers, hundreds of pages, all with many
applications um and scenarios.
>> That is Aaron Flaugh. He's a principal
economist at the Boston Fed and he's
also the discussant for this particular
paper.
>> The discussant role is really
interesting.
>> Yeah, this was probably one of the most
fascinating sort of dynamics which I
knew existed but didn't quite appreciate
how it works. So basically every
presenter gets paired with an official
discussant whose job is just to
interpret and critique frankly the paper
for a wider audience.
>> So those are those are my uh my main
comments. I do just want to emphasize
that what SENM is doing here is policy
relevant research you know at its
finest. It's our profession working at
its finest for really answering these
very timely questions in ways that that
>> authors are very close to the paper. You
wrote this, you know, details and you
can see in the presentations, right?
They they know inside out and stuff like
that. So they provide a presentation.
The role really what a discussant does
is sort of a essentially let me
translate what the author does for the
broader audience. Right? A good
discussant role is really to sort of
reframe the paper, pull out key
takeaways, and then provide some
constructive, you know, comments.
>> But, um, sometimes things get a little
awkward.
>> Definitely awkward, but, you know,
everyone is still very polite.
>> Still very polite. Yes. But more on that
after this break.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Let's go to another paper. This one is
by Tomaso Monichelli. He's a professor
of economics at University Bachi and his
paper is called Supply Chain
Uncertainty, Energy Prices and
Inflation. And it is actually about one
of our favorite topics, Joe. Supply
chains. No, that's right because uh
that's exactly right. So supply chain
disruptions can uh sort of change uh the
state of the economy. So the environment
that's our idea where firms uh make uh
uh production and pricing decisions,
right? And so the key idea is that uh um
the the state of the world uh in which
firms operate, right? can uh can change
underlying and um so as economists we
say the the state of the economy changes
uh even starting from uh uh potentially
minor uh uh events uh along the supply
chain. how we make the example of this
apparently small episode like in the
sewers canal two years ago sort of a
ship uh container shipping oil and other
inputs got stuck for a few days
>> we remember it well literally right but
that was that episode sort of got
resolved in a few days but I didn't have
the time to show the data but then this
uh uh the effect on transportation
disruptions s okay along supply chains
lasted for months. Okay, so the analogy
here is think of a airport, okay, like a
hub, okay, where a lot of flight. So now
many airports uh uh h function as hubs
okay of many flights coming from
different directions and right you can
have a disruption like a single delay on
a single flight in the in the in the hub
but then this propagates you know uh
along the day and then across many
different flights and and amplifying the
delay downstream
>> a cascade effect.
>> Yes. So at the heart of Tomasu's
research is this sort of very important
question. Are supply chain disruptions
real? Are they a real thing? Or are they
simply manifestations or symptoms of
excess demand maybe caused by too much
fiscal stimulus?
>> Yeah. So after the pandemic, a lot of
people criticized the government for
handing out checks to people and
businesses helping supposedly to fan
inflation. But actually, if small supply
chain disruptions can reverberate for
longer than previously thought through
energy prices or whatever, then per
Tamaso's research, they can be a pretty
important source of inflation. And the
important thing is that it's not the
size of the supply chain shock that
matters. It's the actual volatility
itself, the uncertainty that matters for
inflation.
>> Right? So again, I think you know, you
could see why this would be of interest
to policy makers. Even 5 years after the
pandemic, we're still trying to figure
out exactly what happened and uh we'll
probably be researching that for years.
>> Totally. Yes. So here in the in our
research, we emphasize the interaction.
So the complimentarity between uh you
know uh shocks to let's say the price of
oil. Okay. That typically central banks
look at right. But they they have a a
typical attitude. Let's say normal
times. If there are oil shocks, yes, we
should monitor that those shocks don't
feed are not too persistent. They don't
feed onto inflation expectations and so
on. But their attitude is typically
let's look through. Okay, this uh oil
price all oil prices jump around uh uh
very much uh in markets. But here we are
saying even the same uh uh original uh
let's say oil price shocks or energy gas
price shocks they can have a very
different amplified effects on
inflation. Okay. Depending on whether
the state of supply chain is disrupted
or not. Okay. So it's it's really the
intera. So it's not really that we
believe that we emphasize supply chain
shocks. We say typical supply shocks
like oil shocks or gas price shocks,
right? They can get really amplified and
in a very persistent way if the
underlying conditions of supply chains
are disruptive. So that that state of
the economy should be monitored and in
in those states of the world the central
bank should be very very reactive way
more reactive to uh oil shocks or energy
price shocks than in periods where
supply chain disruptions are minimal.
>> So that's the basic thrust of the paper
and the data seemed to bear Tomaso's
thesis out but things got a little
awkward when it was time for the
discussion.
>> Hi I'm Ludvik Stra. I'm a professor of
economics at Harvard. I'm a quantitative
macroeconomist. So I try to build models
that describe the macroeconomy and can
be used for policy analysis and
forecasting. I'm a discussant of a paper
on supply chain uncertainty and energy
shocks and how those two relate to the
postcoid inflation episode.
>> Right. As Lidvig puts it, being a
discussant is a pretty big commitment.
And we should just mention here that
neither the researchers nor the
discussants are getting paid for their
time. They're doing this for other
reasons. obviously to contribute to
policy, but there's another big
motivation that we'll get into in a
minute. So, here's Lvig.
>> So, not everybody has time uh and energy
to do this. In my case, I love being at
the Boston Fed and I'm close. So, so
it's not a big travel uh uh to come
here. And uh yeah, so I said yes. And um
you know about a month before the
conference you typically receive the
paper and then you spend a significant
amount of time I'd say maybe half a week
a week
>> um you know in your of your research
time with the paper and trying to
understand the ins and outs trying to
understand the empirics the model and
then hopefully give a balanced view of
the paper during the discussion
>> and from what we saw at the conference
it feels like discussions can have
different styles some basically
summarize the paper and explain why it's
relevant and others others you know
maybe pick it apart very critically
here's Levik talking about the
discussants
>> some tend to be more like what you just
mentioned more like the latter that you
know pick apart papers and kind of come
across as a little bit destructive
rather than constructive you know the
the last discussion at the conference
was a lot more constructive for example
and would be you know building off the
author's results and you showing them
what they could do next with with the
paper. Some are very very kind and just
praise the results,
>> which I I tend to I tend to try to be in
somewhere in between. You know, I tend
to shed some critical light on the the
author's results if that, you know, is
something that I think helps understand
the paper, but I also want to be
constructive and I want to be kind to
the authors, too. So, you know, you want
to kind of balance those two sides, I
guess. and Ludvig did shed some um
critical light on Tomaso's research.
>> Suggestions for improvement, we can say,
>> right? Suggestions for improvement,
right? That's a a a good way of putting
it.
>> So, as the economy reopened, as we had
ample fiscal stimulus, and I tend to
think that that means we ran up a
marginal cost curve, meaning, you know,
costs went up just because there was a
lot of demand. And so, bottlenecks
emerged, um ports got clogged. And I
think that alone can lead to an increase
in what looks like supply chain issues
even though they're not really the root
cause of things. Now, I still think this
paper has has a lot of merits to it, but
you know, I tend to think that not all
that looks like an energy shock is
really truly a shock rather than just a
con a consequence of of increased
demand. Tomaso also used the Baltic Dry
index as a proxy for shipping cost,
which as anyone who has spent a bit of
time on finance Twitter will tell you is
an index that gets criticized a lot.
>> Exactly. And then if if it's just one
episode in that time series that's kind
of responsible for some of the results,
then I would worry about that. Now, I
don't know if that's exactly what's
going on, but I did play around a little
bit and it was not as robust as as, you
know, I was maybe hoping it or they were
maybe hoping it to be.
>> So, Tracy, speaking of Twitter, you
know, look, both you and I are used to
getting criticism, right? But even if
you're used to it, I think it would be
pretty uncomfortable to have your work
sort of publicly criticized by one of
your peers in front of a big group of
peers.
>> Yeah, I would think so, too. Although,
Tomaso actually seemed pretty fine with
it.
>> No. Okay. So that that you learn uh
learn out of experience through time
right that you have to filter the
reaction of the audience and get the the
good and the bad signals. So first of
all I had great comments uh very useful
I both myself and my co-author are very
happy uh the discussion was fantastic I
I know him he's a fantastic researcher
he's one of the best uh macroeconomist I
admire his researchers I was very happy
that he [snorts] they was pleased with
the with the with the paper but also the
the audience had very interesting uh
comments that uh know materially will be
very useful for uh for uh uh keeping up
with the research and and again uh M
sometimes you get some more aggressive
comments. Uh but you know there is a
there is a uh sort of there there is an
interesting uh role uh type of uh uh
dynamics uh that happens in academic
conferences that you have to
internalize. Yeah,
>> Tracy, I really do. I want to go to one
of those workshops that you hear about
where the, you know, the young the young
student or the young professor, maybe
someone applying for a job, they're
presenting their paper and then the old
professor in the back of the room sort
of puts on a big show and humiliates
them, bring up all these points.
>> That is a very interesting point because
Tomaso says the days of older professors
publicly humiliating younger students
are pretty much over.
>> That happens uh in sort of a behind
secret doors in a way. No, but but uh
especially as of late uh the profession
is discussing that a lot.
>> Yeah. So we we we now are are becoming
much more aware that the climate uh
especially in economics much more than
in other social sciences or hard
sciences that the climate during
seminars during presentations especially
within closed door seminars might be uh
might be uh sort of not conducive for
for for younger researchers to actually
take risks and uh and and and learn from
the audience. So we are becoming way
more mindful that it is very important
to to you know to keep a to keep a
civilized climate in in in research
environments.
>> Speaking of civilized climates, we
should just mention that things can get
pretty heated in the public discussion
too,
>> right? So this is also part of it where
attendees get a chance to ask questions
or often make their own uh points about
the papers being questioned. Many uh
many statements in the form of a
question.
>> Yeah, lots of that. And things got a
little um I don't want to say combative
but loud. They were loud. Things got
kind of loud after a paper was presented
on the idea of policy tradeoffs. So
trade-offs between geopolitical risks
and economic risks.
>> Perhaps it's too early to tell. Standard
models of the type that uh that Shnam
talked about without the nominal
rigidities would also predict optimal
uniform tariffs that are very high 20
40% range. So the current environment uh
looks pretty good.
>> The voice you hear is Paul Antress. He
is a professor at Harvard giving the
keynote address on the first day of the
conference.
>> According to this models, we are in a
sweet spot. I'm not so sure. Why?
Because [snorts] the standard models are
models that I think have features uh
that I I think are not in line with many
of the things that I see when I look at
the data. his presentation, the evolving
role of the United States in global
value chains. It touched on some of the
same areas that Shbnum had covered
earlier. And the beauty of a conference
like this is that she was sitting right
in the audience uh and she was able to
weigh in right then and there.
>> You just raised a couple issues and then
I then I realized maybe I wasn't clear
during my presentation. I fully agree on
the whole firm level and how the input
output uh data we have is kind of this
sausage. Uh but I would disagree that we
do want to make understand how the
sausage made so that we can do better.
Right? So
>> the economists were fighting.
>> Well actually I asked Shabbn about this
later and here's what she said.
>> Well actually I characterized that as a
very healthy debate and little bit also
you know the artifact of these
conferences where you have 25 minutes to
present right. So I didn't have that
much time and then of course because I
didn't show the parts where we use the
firm level data and more uh uh you know
disciplined the macro model with more uh
you know micro identified elasticities
and all that. Joe, all of this raises
the question of why economists choose to
do this in the first place. And you
know, you spend a huge chunk of time
writing a paper. You probably have a few
research assistants that are working on
it and they could be doing something
else
>> and then it gets scrutinized this very
publicly.
>> I I I maybe you felt I was I was picking
on you. I I I didn't mean to do that.
Now, of course, I I take your point. Um
let me just push back though uh in the
sense that
>> obviously one of the motivations is the
policy aspect. Economists I think many
of them want to inform policy in an
accurate and useful way. That's pretty
obvious. But there was also something
that I didn't quite realize. Peer review
and publishing. People want to be
published.
>> Yeah. Look, I get it. Believe me, I get
it. Researchers, yes, they want to uh
influence policy. Who doesn't? But they
also want to get their papers rubber
stamped by other economists and then
published in the most prestigious
academic journals. And so one thing I
wondered is whether there's a tension
between, you know, just from the
economist perspective, is there some
sort of tension between the goal of
writing a paper that is actually useful
for making better policy or just sort of
maximizing your chances of getting into
a peer-reviewed journal?
>> Yeah, I think that is a very fair
question and Shbnam talked about that
too.
>> Yes. No, [laughter] this is the story of
my life. So because this is this is a
very uh uh serious tension and I'm
hoping uh we will make the best use of
these times now we are living in to uh
uh to change this because yes
unfortunately academia uh publishing
values very narrow uh research and very
uh tightly defined specialized research
uh and that's why economists are in
silos right there There are labor
economists, they are macroeconomists,
they are IIO economists, international
economists, finance economists. And
generally these groups don't talk to
each other much and they just do one
thing. But but when you want to do
policy relevant research, uh you talk to
policy makers and then you the minute
you start talking to policy makers and
spend time in policy institutions, you
realize these problems don't come like
that. Oh, here's a you know problem
about you know labor so I need labor
economy. Here's a problem about like you
know uh financial market. There's a I
mean problem about mother the problems
are linked the problems are linked and
economics profession actually is uh is
capable of you know answering those
problems creating solutions for those
problems if you know these insights from
these different sub fields come together
uh which is you know what I try to do uh
and I I'm hoping you know uh which kind
of you know academic publishing you know
doesn't value uh that much but I I am
you know I'm an optimist I'm hopeful I
think uh these are the times uh people
now coming together writing with each
other more and you know realizing this
more and more so hopefully um you know
we'll we'll go downward to a to a better
path on this. Yeah.
>> So as a consumer so if everything you're
saying is right so that's awesome. I I I
would encourage you to kind of like
obviously you want to come in and give
some numbers but give us like versions
of the model that shut down this down.
And you're telling me that real itself
generates a lot of things that are not
in standard models. So I I'm I'm really
excited and I'd like to
>> and and I fully agree. You can do the
smoothing as little as you want. That's
where the data is going to help you. You
need data power, but you have to put
this in a macro model. I mean otherwise
you are not going to go back to
inflation output tradeoff and all these
policy questions. You have to put it in%
agree with that.
>> So all right, I will I will step in in
here. We have a iron cage uh in there
and I have things uh we'll we'll we'll
put that on a on a YouTube. I'll have
dinner.
[music]
>> You know, Joe, there was in fact one
major policy maker in the room along
with everyone else and that is Susan
Collins.
>> That's right. And there are actually
there are two prominent Susan Collins.
This one is the president of the Federal
Reserve Bank of Boston and she was there
the whole time sitting in the front row.
Susan herself actually was an academic.
She taught at Harvard and Georgetown and
the University of Michigan.
>> Right. There are lots of themes going
on. I have to say that I'm struck by the
the sense that understanding
some of the complexities
may change traditional ways of thinking
about things. So that's a theme that I'm
hearing. So the first paper was really
if you um if you account for the
linkages through networks that include
not only trade flows but also financial
flows and you know if you and across
sectors and countries not just through
countries but add the sector component
in. we may historically with simpler
more traditional models have
underestimated the potential for larger
more persistent effects of different
kinds of shocks. And then similarly the
second paper had kind of a similar theme
that when you really um focus on some of
the supply chain connections increases
in uncertainty can make a shock have a
bigger impact. So putting the different
things making those connections that's
complicated work. I'm really glad that
we have experts who are digging in and
able to explain them and present them
for us and have us ask questions and try
to understand them better.
>> So Susan mentioned ideas and one thing
I'm very curious about is how the ideas
being presented in these papers actually
filter through into policy
>> osmosis. Right.
>> Well, right. I'm sure I'm sure there's
some of that, but also like do you think
Susan is taking the most interesting
paper and attaching it to an email and
sending it off to Tom Barkin at the
Richmond Fed and being like, "You have
to read this."
>> Yeah, I would. Hey, Tom, here's
something you might find interesting.
>> Yeah. So, there lots of different ways.
So, sometimes um you know, sometimes we
have the time to go to each other's
conferences and it's hard, right,
because we there's a lot going on. Uh so
sometimes people uh sometimes my
colleagues will actually be sitting in
and hear it from themselves. Some of
their uh research teams are often tuning
in whether in person or virtually. Our
research teams talk to each other.
They're very active relationships. They
co-author papers. They're engaged in
that way. And certainly if they're
things that are really informative for
me, I will share them with colleagues in
a variety of different ways. Maybe not
as much attach the paper. you know, we
have a lot to read and to to go through.
I would try to distill why I'm really
interested, but you know, we're always
looking for important ideas, trying to
be better informed. [music] That's
something that's important to all of us.
>> And again, thank you for joining us for
the 69th conference. We're delighted to
have OddLots here.
[music]
So, that was the Boston Fed's research
conference. Joe,
>> it was great. But before we go, should
tell people how Omar's presentation
went.
>> Oh, yeah. So, we started this episode
talking to Boston Fed economist Omar
Barbierro. And I feel like he was under
more pressure than most because he was
presenting not just in front of his
peers, but in front of his actual boss.
actually multiple bosses because there's
Susan Collins but also Egon Zakryek. So
his boss and his boss's boss.
>> Yeah. And his was actually the last
paper of the conference. I thought it
went really well.
>> Some interesting insights on that. Thank
you very much. [applause]
>> Basically what I have to say I think
it's an exciting effort. Uh very
impressive data collection and rich set
of results.
>> Tomaso I think it's a presentation was
very interesting. I think the the the
effort also is um is very important and
great this is really cool to see I have
three three quick
>> uh okay this is this is a great paper uh
and I fully agree with Andrea that this
is actually huge work so you didn't even
mention but we are also now matching
piva to a larger set of uh firms
>> ho that's a good outcome and you know I
should just mention Joe we we've
obviously been summarizing all these
papers because we're trying to compress
a day and a half of discussion into I
don't know 40 60 minutes but all of
these papers are available online at the
Boston Fed's website
>> totally and if you want to actually see
the conference itself if this episode if
if somehow this episode was not enough
for you um actually the entire
conference is on video so you could see
all of the presentations and the
discussants and so forth it's all
available online
>> but I'm so glad we went because I feel
like I have a much better understanding
ing of how policy actually develops, how
research develops and what economists
are kind of aiming for.
>> Totally. So when we went to Boston, you
know, in my mind I was thinking like we
were there to learn more about economics
which of course we did and there were
all kinds of interesting ideas on supply
chains, inflation, all the stuff we
talked about. But it was also and I
hadn't appreciated this. It was a
sociology trip like we're learning about
the sociology of how academic work works
the relationship between academic work
and policy and stuff which is just one
of these things that of course
intuitively is very important but I
don't think like anyone really thinks
about and when you think about like how
economists could be under this sort of
dual pressure of like do I want to
influence policy and is there some cost
if I'm focusing on maximizing total
published output you could see some real
uh interesting tensions that emerge in
that process,
>> right? It's sort of a microcosm of
academia, I guess, which we got to study
for a day and a half. So, I don't know.
Maybe maybe next year we'll be in the
room at Jackson Hole. We can hope
>> if anyone at the Kansas City Fed
[laughter] is listening.
>> All right. Uh, shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the All
Thoughts Podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the Stalwart. Big thanks to Susan
Collins and the rest of the Boston Fed
for inviting us to observe and
participate in their conference. And
once again, all the people who took the
time to chat with us. We really
appreciate them. You should go to the
Boston Fed's website and really check
out those papers and presentations. All
of it excellent. Follow our producers,
Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen, Dash
Bennett, who actually joined us on the
trip. He's at Dashbot and Kalebrooks at
Kalebrooks. For more OddLots content, go
to bloomberg.com/odlots
with a daily newsletter and all of our
episodes. And you can chat about all of
these topics 247 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlotss. [music]
>> And if you enjoy OddLots, if you want to
send us on more sociological trips to
research conferences, then please leave
us a positive review [music] on your
favorite podcast platform. And remember,
if you are a Bloomberg subscriber, you
can listen to all of our episodes
absolutely adree. [music] All you need
to do is find the Bloomberg channel on
Apple Podcast and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
[music]
Yeah.
Heat.
[music]